# Laravel-RESTful-api-crud-scafold
A laravel RESTful crud scafold

## TO-DO 
Install 
Make a controller
Make Route
Write small code
Test API on postman
Interview Questions

## installation
composer create-project laravel/laravel example-app

## Make Migrations
php artisan make:migration
sample code

```
Schema::create('task', function (Blueprint $table) {
            $table->id();

            $table->unsignedBigInteger('user_id');
            $table->unsignedBigInteger('project_id');

            $table->string('description');
            $table->date('dueDate');
            $table->string('comment');
            $table->timestamps();

            $table->foreign('user_id')->references('id')->on('users');
            $table->foreign('project_id')->references('id')->on('project');
        });
```

## Make Seeder
To generate a seeder, execute the make:seeder Artisan command. All seeders generated by the framework will be placed in the database/seeders directory:

php artisan make:seeder UserSeeder
A seeder class only contains one method by default: run. This method is called when the db:seed Artisan command is executed. Within the run method, you may insert data into your database however you wish.

## Using Model Factories
Of course, manually specifying the attributes for each model seed is cumbersome. Instead, you can use model factories to conveniently generate large amounts of database records. First, review the model factory documentation to learn how to define your factories.

For example, let's create 50 users that each has one related post:

```
use App\Models\User;

/**
 * Run the database seeders.
 *
 * @return void
 */
public function run()
{
    User::factory()
            ->count(50)
            ->hasPosts(1)
            ->create();
}
```

## Calling Additional Seeders
Within the DatabaseSeeder class, you may use the call method to execute additional seed classes. Using the call method allows you to break up your database seeding into multiple files so that no single seeder class becomes too large. The call method accepts an array of seeder classes that should be executed:

```
/**
 * Run the database seeders.
 *
 * @return void
 */
public function run()
{
    $this->call([
        UserSeeder::class,
        PostSeeder::class,
        CommentSeeder::class,
    ]);
}

```

## Make Model

## Create a RESOURCE AND RESOURCE CONTROLLER

```
php artisan make:resource ProjectResource

php artisan make:controller API/ProjectController --api --model=Project

```

